# Customization template for VMS

This directory contains a customization template.

## How to use.
After the structure of a customization package is updated and changes reviewed - you need to update CMS manually. To do that - take reference customization (vmsdemoblue), add files mentioned below to that directory, then pack and update CMS structure and defaults. 

Instruction on how to do it most easily can be found here: https://networkoptix.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PM/pages/134774928/Customization+Management+System

**Important:  old files and fields are not removed from CMS automatically, because they might have some actual content. The removing should be handled manually together with the release engineer.**

## Specific files in the template
### vms_structure.json
vms_structure.json describes all files and fields required for customization pack, including validation logic and limitations.
Every time new file or field is needed for customization - it should be described in that file.

Default values for parameters:
* advanced: false
* optional: false
* protected: false
* background: transparent

### description.json
description.json is a template file, which contains a general description of customization including names, some GUIDs and other text fields.
This file should not contain any real sensitive values, because all values will be shown to the user as an example to the users of CMS interface (partners).
This file should contain all possible supported values at all times; this file should be a valid JSON at all times.
CMS uses this specific object structure to generate description.json while exporting the package

### license.html
This file is a template for end-user license agreement file which will be used for every customization.
Important: actual default template for license text is stored inside vms_structure.json.
Please, do not edit this file and use it every time while updating the structure and defaults in the CMS
